Welcome to another edition
of JW Broadcasting!
Thank you for joining us.
You will be delighted to see
reports of some
of the many exciting activities
that have taken place
this past calendar year
in furthering Kingdom interests.
You will also hear experiences
from construction projects
in Micronesia
that the brothers involved attribute
to Jehovah’s intervention.
And have you benefited
from the translation
of JW Broadcasting
into languages
other than English?
We will take you
behind the scenes
to see how the program
is made available
to as many of God’s sheep
as possible.
This is the January program
of JW Broadcasting!
Our theme
for this month’s broadcast
is “Sincere Commendation
Is Always Appropriate!”
One definition of “commendation” is:
“The act of praising
or approving of someone.”
And when it is given
in a sincere, genuine way,
how encouraging it can be
to the one receiving it!
That makes us think
of Proverbs 15:23,
which says:
“A word spoken at the right time
—how good it is!”
Similarly, Proverbs 12:25
talks about how anxiety
can weigh a person’s heart down,
but then says:
“But a good word cheers it up.”
A 19th century author jested:
“I can live for two months
on a good compliment.”
But now,
keeping our theme in mind,
let us talk
about Jehovah and Jesus.
Can you imagine how much
Jehovah must have appreciated
his only-begotten Son,
whom we have come to know as Jesus?
Jesus had faithfully
supported his Father
for eons of time.
But then when he learned
of Jehovah’s purpose
to buy back the hope
of everlasting life
for imperfect humans,
what did Jesus do?
Did he make excuses
as to why he could not leave heaven
and come to the earth?
‘Father,
I have many projects going on,
‘and I have my friends
here in heaven.
‘And besides,
I would miss being with you.
‘I just don’t have
the right circumstances.
‘Furthermore,
this will be a very difficult,
‘painful, humiliating assignment!
‘It seems like
this is a good assignment
for Gabriel!’
No!
Jesus did not
even slightly reason this way.
He willingly made sacrifices
that cost him dearly.
He changed life forms
—going from a majestic spirit creature
to a little baby
completely dependent on his parents.
Later, as a perfect child,
he remained fully in subjection
to imperfect parents.
Then, as an adult,
he worked his heart out
in starting a preaching campaign
that continues to this very day.
You wonder how many pairs of sandals
he may have worn out
during his three-and-a-half-year ministry!
Then, he died
an agonizing death on a torture stake
in order to provide
“a corresponding ransom”
according to Jehovah’s purpose.
He contributed
his very life to support the work
that Jehovah
wanted accomplished at that time.
Undoubtedly, you recall the video
that was shown during the final talk
of last year’s regional convention.
It helped us better appreciate
what Jesus did for us.
By his selfless act,
he opened the way for everlasting life,
whether in heaven
or on earth.
But now, the question is,
Did Jehovah appreciate
all that his Son did
to support Him
—sanctifying His name
and vindicating His sovereignty?
Absolutely,
we know He did!
Imagine Jesus
waist-deep in the Jordan River,
his hair still dripping
from his baptism.
He looks up and in some way
sees ‘the heavens open up
‘and God’s spirit descend
like a dove and come upon him.’
Then he hears
Jehovah’s own voice from heaven say:
“This is my Son, the beloved,
whom I have approved.”
If we think about it,
Jehovah packed a lot of commendation
into that one sentence.
“This is my Son,”
Jehovah, in effect,
was saying, ‘Son,
I’m proud
to be your Father’;
“the beloved,”
Jehovah was saying,
‘I love you, Son’;
“whom I have approved,”
Jehovah was saying,
‘I am very happy, Son,
with what you have done thus far,
‘and I know
I’m going to be very happy
with what you will yet do!’
Can you imagine
how good all of that commendation
made Jesus feel?
Yes, Jehovah appreciated
all of the sacrifices
Jesus had made to support
what He wanted accomplished,
and He expressed His appreciation!
Jesus, being the exact reflection
of his Father,
was also a perfect example
of one who commended others.
As recorded at Luke 22:28, 29,
do you remember what Jesus said
to his faithful 11 apostles
on the last night of his life as a human?
“You are the ones
“who have stuck
with me in my trials;
and I make a covenant with you
. . . for a kingdom.”
Warm commendation indeed!
Consider another example.
Although Jesus provided
constructive counsel
to several congregations,
he also warmly commended them.
Notice what he said
to the congregation in Thyatira
at Revelation 2:19.
In verse 19, Jesus said:
“I know your deeds, and your love
“and faith
and ministry and endurance,
“and that your deeds of late
are more than those you did at first.”
Such detailed,
thoughtful commendation
likely moved the congregation
to continue making
similar progress thereafter.
Well, now we have talked
about the two best examples
in the universe
of ones who are generous
with commendation:
Jehovah and Jesus.
But now, what about us?
Ephesians 5:1 urges us
to “become imitators of God,”
and our convention theme this past year
was “Imitate Jesus!”
And this counsel also applies
to the Governing Body.
The Governing Body
would like to follow Jehovah’s
and Jesus’ good example
by providing warm commendation
to you dear brothers and sisters.
So many of you are so responsive
to any suggestions
or appeals made to you
by “the faithful and discreet slave.”
In the May 2015 monthly program,
we shared our interest in expediting
the construction of new Kingdom Halls
and remote translation offices,
and we explained
some of the financial challenges
we were facing in being able to do so.
We discerned that contributions
immediately went up
by more than 15 percent
for the months of June and July.
We thank you very much!
Not only are older ones
in Jehovah’s organization
responding with generosity;
the Governing Body
has been deeply touched
by the response of many young ones.
As just one example,
I personally received a precious letter.
“Dear Brother Lett,
“Hello! I am 13 years old.
“The reason I wrote this letter
“is because of the May JW Broadcasting.
“I was motivated
“to contribute to the worldwide work.
“I have been saving up
“and my relatives gave me some money.
“I hope it helps.
“I also want to thank you
and the other Governing Body members
“for the Korean JW Broadcasting.
“Now my whole family
can understand much more
“and benefit from it!
“My whole family
wants to appreciate all of this.
(Please tell
the other Governing Body members also.)”
And then she drew a smiley face.
“So because you motivated me
in financial ways,
“I was also motivated in spiritual ways.
“I am doing auxiliary pioneering
during summer break!
“One more time,
my family and I want to say,
‘Thank you!’”
And then she drew a big red heart
at the end of her letter.
Well, I sent the check
to the Treasurer’s Office,
but I’m definitely keeping
her touching letter
and her adorable picture!
Comments such as these
have moved us to want to use
this January 2016 broadcast program
to thank you
from the bottom of our hearts
for your support
and also to update you
on what has happened
since last May.
So many good things
are happening.
So we ask,
What has been accomplished
in the past eight months?
Well, we continued
to finance the weekly costs
to feed and house
the more than 25,000 Bethel family members
worldwide and to help support
over 55,000 others
in special full-time service.
We have been able to continue to fund
the huge construction project of building
the world headquarters facility
in Warwick, New York.
Additionally, large branch construction
and renovation projects
that were underway are being supported.
And around the world,
considerable audio
and video equipment was purchased
to show the entire program
of our “Imitate Jesus!” conventions
on big screens or monitors.
Seeing the participants up close
holds our attention
and enhances the learning experience.
You may not realize it,
but there were 52 videos
and almost 30 other audio and visual aids
presented during this convention
—making a total
of some 80 presentations
for our enjoyment.
In addition to all of the foregoing,
in the past eight months,
over 2,000 Kingdom Halls
have been built
or are in the process
of being completed.
That averages
to more than eight Kingdom Halls
being built every day,
which is truly amazing!
Also, over 50
remote translation office facilities
have been completed
or are now in the process of being built.
Does all of this mean, though,
that we have accomplished
all of our goals?
You’ll remember
that in our May program,
we mentioned
the willing generosity of the Israelites
in the wilderness
when they were asked to contribute
to the fabrication and construction
of the tabernacle for true worship.
You’ll recall that in Exodus 35,
it says that
“everyone whose heart impelled him
“and everyone
whose spirit incited him came
and brought
their contribution for Jehovah.”
And in chapter 36, verse 7, it says:
“The goods were enough
for all the work to be done,
and more than enough.”
So we ask,
Were the Israelites more appreciative
and responsive than we are today?
No!
As we said earlier,
you are to be commended
for your immediate,
generous response to the May broadcast.
You responded similar
to the Israelites in Moses’ time.
The difference, however,
between the Israelites’ giving
and ours today
is that they only had
one project to construct.
When it was completed,
that was all that was needed.
However, as you know,
we have thousands of projects
that need our continued support.
It is not just a two-month undertaking.
In fact, as announced
at the annual meeting this past October,
the Governing Body is so serious
about advancing
Kingdom interests in the field
that we have reanalyzed ways
we can cut back at all the branches
so as to redirect
more funds to the field.
For example,
many long-standing Bethel routines
and services
are being reduced or eliminated.
This will result in fewer members
of the Bethel family
being required.
The Governing Body
is absolutely confident,
completely confident,
that this initiative and other
cost-saving initiatives that we are taking,
coupled with your continued support,
will enable us to care for all the needs
in the field.
On behalf of the Governing Body,
I would like to borrow the inspired words
of 2 Thessalonians 1:3, 4.
We express the words of Paul
to you dear brothers and sisters:
“We are obligated always
“to give thanks to God for you, brothers.
“This is fitting,
“because your faith
is growing exceedingly
“and the love of each and every one of you
is increasing toward one another.
“As a result we ourselves take pride
“in you among the congregations of God
because of your endurance and faith.”
Again, we sincerely thank you
for your generous support
of Jehovah’s great work
in these exciting last days!
But now, during this broadcast,
we would like to show you
some of the things being accomplished
as a result of your generosity.
This past summer,
it was my privilege to attend
a large regional convention
in Stockholm, Sweden.
Brothers and sisters
from Sweden, Denmark,
Norway, Iceland,
Greenland, the Faeroe Islands,
and also the Swedish circuit in Finland
were present at this historic convention.
While this event was
a great spiritual boost  for the Witnesses,
some of you may know
that the majority of the local residents
do not believe in God.
Many consider themselves atheists.
But the conduct
and professionalism of Jehovah’s people
made a great impact.
First, the branch offices were merged.
And the result was a new branch office
—Scandinavia branch.
We thought
that if all the brothers in Scandinavia
should benefit from this unity,
then we had to have
a convention in Stockholm.
Here we were allowed
to arrange a regional convention,
but one of enormous size.
Having 50,000 brothers
gathered together for three days
is the largest theocratic event
ever in Scandinavia.
So we began to look for a facility,
and we found Friends Arena.
I think we have had
a very good collaboration.
Many times I have thought:
“Wow, these people working for you
“as the organizers
of infrastructure, logistics, and so on,
we should work with them more often.”
The use of technology
has been the greatest challenge.
Obviously, with such a large project,
many details have to come together.
There are four languages
and three sign languages,
and all these have to be tied together
and work at the same time.
It has been a challenge, but we made it work.
All the experts argued
that it would be impossible
to have four languages at one arena.
Early in the morning,
families with children and strollers arrive.
Some elderly publishers
get up at 5:30 a.m. or 6:00 a.m.,
getting on the bus
to be here in good time.
Jehovah must be joyful
seeing all the people
appreciating the spiritual program
and all their efforts.
When the song started,
50,000 were in place here,
and it was our proof that all the hard work
in preparation was successful.
And actually,
I shed a tear of joy.
I did.
One of the managers at the arena said:
“You have to stand and listen to the song
“because you will never again hear
“a choir of 50,000 singing at the same time.
You just have to listen to it.”
First, I want to thank you
for how well it worked out.
Normally, at arrangements of this size,
we are using an event agency,
but you have done this for many years,
and you have done a fantastic job,
so it was not needed.
You have been very professional
and have knowledge of the business industry.
I have told the contact persons
I have been involved with
that they should start up an event agency
because it has worked out so smoothly.
I can warmly recommend
other cities to welcome you.
You have been very well-organized,
and we have not had to put
much effort into the arrangement.
It requires good organization
to get all things to fall into place.
Obviously,
having so many tourists in Stockholm
at the same time benefits the whole city.
I looked at the number of hotel bookings,
and there are not many rooms available.
There are many who can learn
from the work of the logistics,
of how to get 50,000 people
into the area at the same time.
That is something we can learn a lot from.
We met with the police this afternoon,
and they said that they have never seen
such a well-organized event, ever.
Seeing how everything has been successful,
that is a clear evidence of Jehovah’s help.
It is a great confirmation of one’s faith.
Here you really see faith in action.
Here you see the foundation
for a new and better world.
Brothers and sisters,
your generous contributions
are what make theocratic events
like this one possible,
including the obtaining
of the audio/video equipment required.
However,
the same technology
is not readily available
for conventions everywhere.
In some countries,
large video screens
or high-quality speakers
are simply not obtainable
due to logistical reasons
or perhaps political unrest in the country.
But whatever the circumstances,
what’s important for Jehovah’s organization
is that everyone is spiritually fed.
Take this convention
in a refugee settlement
in western Uganda as an example.
Television screens were transported
on unpaved roads through forests,
tea plantations,
and small villages.
Similar setups
with television screens
were used
in other countries as well.
At times,
large video walls are used,
making it easier
for a larger audience
to see all the beautiful videos
that were produced
for the convention.
For example, in Brazil,
video screens were used
at 167 regional conventions.
These screens are owned
by the organization
and were sent
to one convention after another,
traveling a distance
equal to more than twice
around the earth.
And in Sweden,
a mobile control room was used
to coordinate
and synchronize the video
and audio production
of the convention
in four spoken languages
and three sign languages.
These are only a few examples
of what Jehovah’s organization does
in order to arrange conventions
around the world
to spiritually build up
Jehovah’s people.
But this would not be possible
without your contributions.
Also, as was the case
here in the United States,
oftentimes a decision is made
to purchase equipment
that is used frequently
instead of paying
for a rental each time,
which can be very expensive.
Setting up for a convention
in a large stadium
requires a lot of coordination.
So does the construction
of our new world headquarters
in Warwick, New York.
Hundreds of volunteers
arrive every week to help out,
all with a variety
of construction skills.
But one may ask,
‘With so many people needed,
how do we find
the right people for the right job?’
The answer is,
Warwick Construction Groups
that have been set up
all over the country.
The Warwick Construction Group
is basically a staffing agency.
Local brothers are given
the task to find and assess
the construction skill level
of volunteers
and then forward
that information to the branch.
At that time, we were working with 11 RBCs
—roughly 25,000 volunteers.
How were we going to contact them?
Well, we sent over 200,000 emails
looking for skilled volunteers
in various trades.
Then we hit the road
—30 different locations around the state
—and interviewed everyone
who was interested in Warwick.
Don’t you think
that it’s even amazing that Jehovah
assigns humans
to do the work for him?
And he calls us
—At 1 Corinthians 3:9,
he calls us “fellow workers.”
What a beautiful expression!
And what we find is that everybody
wants to go . . . tomorrow.
And they’re so willing to go
—to spend their own money,
to sacrifice their time,
to pay their own plane tickets,
and do so many things
—that it’s just a really encouraging thing
to see such a fine, willing spirit that could
only exist among Jehovah’s people.
Volunteers have been organized
into 23 different trades,
which are managed from the field.
Volunteers receive help
with any questions, arrangements,
or information about Bethel
as well as any Bethel training they may need.
Over 7,000 interviews
have already been conducted.
One of the first things
that my middle son, Jess, said
—He’s been wanting a cow for three years,
and we just got him one
probably about two weeks ago.
The first thing
that he said when he heard
that Dad was asked
to leave next month to go
was that he’d be willing
to sell his cow
for Dad’s plane ticket.
So we’re very excited
about any opportunity
like this to serve Jehovah in this way
because we feel like this building
will stand into the new system,
and it’s a chance to have a part
in something that is so special.
And so we’re pumped.
I mean, we’re ready for it;
we have a cow for sale!
The whole project of Warwick
may be about building buildings,
but it’s the people that build them.
And we’ve had
an extremely nice privilege
in meeting all of these brothers and sisters,
all of them willing to go today.
Many times bad health
keeps them from doing that.
We’ve heard stories
from brothers that have undergone
really bad things in their life,
but they’re really wanting to go.
One brother made the comment
that his daughter
had just died a few weeks
before we interviewed him,
and he said,
“I just want to go to Warwick
so I can poke Satan in the eye.”
When you see
Jehovah’s people answer the call,
there is nothing better
than to be a part of that.
Seeing these large groups
of brothers and sisters
applying to help build
the new world headquarters
probably makes you wonder,
‘How is the construction at Warwick going?’
Please pay attention to these images
that highlight what was accomplished
in recent months.
Although our financial contributions
are important,
those that volunteer
on construction projects know
that money alone
cannot make it successful.
We met a brother from Micronesia
who has experience with such projects,
and he has seen what he believes
is clearly Jehovah’s hand in matters.
The buildings that we construct
are vital in accomplishing Jehovah’s will.
Without the financial support
from the brothers and sisters,
we wouldn’t have the funds needed
to make these projects happen.
But Jehovah’s support far outweighs
any financial support that’s given.
You can’t replace that with anything.
My name is Travis Brooks.
My wife, Lacey,
and I serve in Micronesia.
Our assignment
is serving in the LDC Department,
which is
the Local Design/Construction Department.
We care for all the islands of Micronesia.
It covers the same distance
from California to New York.
But if you took all those islands
and put them together,
it would be smaller
than the state of Rhode Island.
So it’s very vast and spread out.
We’ve seen Jehovah’s hand
many times
throughout the years on our projects.
One in particular that stands out to us
is the Rairok Congregation.
This congregation had been meeting
in a house for a number of years.
And they would have
70, 80, 90 in attendance at times,
but they would sit outside
because they couldn’t fit in the house.
And many of them
would listen through the window
or observe through the door
through the rain, and they would have
a tarp set up just to try to keep dry.
So we found this piece of property,
but the problem was
that the government had just placed a ban
on dredging sand and coral
out of the ocean or off the beaches.
Without having that, we wouldn’t
be able to mix our concrete
to accomplish our project.
So there was one company on the island
that had stockpiled sand and aggregate.
We had gone to them a number of times,
telling them, asking them,
if we could purchase
just eight yards of cement
for our footings,
so we could at least get started.
And they kept denying our request.
The construction overseer and myself
decided we’d go one more time
to that cement company
and plead our case with them.
When we pulled
into the parking lot of the company,
we discussed what we could say
to convince them to at least sell us
the eight yards that we needed.
We made it a matter of prayer again,
we both exited the vehicle,
and as we were approaching
the doors of the company,
this blue pickup pulled in
and kind of intercepted us.
The gentleman, a local man, hopped out
of his truck and said, “Can I help you?”
He was the man who was in charge.
Well, we explained our situation,
and he said, “Well, you’ll have
your concrete the next morning.”
What was interesting about that
and what really made us feel
like Jehovah had a hand in the matter
was that this gentleman
had just flown in the night before
from another island
—he had been gone for quite some time.
He had pulled in,
talked to us,
and then hopped back
in his truck and drove away.
So we wondered,
‘Why did he pull in in the first place?’
We didn’t want to argue with it;
we just took advantage of the situation.
And the next morning
—seven o’clock—
the truck rolled in,
and we poured our footings.
So we kept moving forward
with the project until we got to that stage
where we would need to fill
the block work with 80 yards of sand
—on an island with no sand.
So again we made it
a matter of prayer
and knew that if again Jehovah
wanted it built, it would be built.
So we scoured the island again
to see if there was anybody willing,
and we were unsuccessful.
So on our way back
to the construction site,
the construction overseer
and I stopped at a store
to purchase something, and we were talking
to the gentleman behind the counter.
We explained the situation to him,
and the man asked,
“Well, how much sand do you need?”
And we told him 80 yards,
which is quite a bit,
and the man said,
“Well, I have 90 yards in my backyard.
I don’t have anything to do with it,
so you are more than welcome to it.”
He said,
“When do you need it?”
We said,
“Well, we need it tomorrow morning.”
The man said,
“Well, I have a dump truck too,
so I’ll see you in the morning.”
Well, the next morning,
he showed up,
and we were able to fill that area
and move on with the project.
Another experience
that really stands out to me
is an experience
we had on the island of Yap.
We were doing a renovation
of a remote translation office
and an extension of the Kingdom Hall
because of the growth
that they’ve had in the congregation.
They’ve outgrown their Kingdom Hall.
So for that extension we would need
cement and sand for backfill.
And again this is an island,
which is ironic
that you really can’t get sand
because there are no companies that sell it.
So, what you do is you go from village
to village asking the village chief
if he would be willing
to sell sand off of his beach.
Well, after visiting all the villages,
no one was willing to sell
any of their sand that we needed
until we reached the last village,
who was willing to sell the sand.
But the problem was
that there was a dispute
between two chiefs
that bordered that beach.
The one chief said,
“No, that’s my sand.”
The other one said that was his sand.
Well, they couldn’t come to an agreement,
so they weren’t willing
to sell the sand to us.
So we were at the stage
where we were getting ready
to need it in a few days
so that we could move forward
with the extension of the Kingdom Hall.
At that point, things got worse
because there was a typhoon
approaching the island.
So we just had
the construction crew stop work,
and the next morning,
we were able to get in contact
with the construction overseer on the island.
He said,
“I’ve got really good news.
“There was no damage;
the storm took a turn
just before it hit the island
and just grazed it.”
He said,
“I have some other good news.
“I just got a call from the village chiefs.
“Apparently, the storm surge had washed up
“a bunch of sand
over their road to their villages,
“and they have no way of removing it.
“So they said,
‘We have plenty of sand.
Can you come
and help us get rid of it?’”
So we ended up having enough sand
for the rest of the project.
Jehovah’s blessing
is the most important thing
that we can have on our projects.
From the start to the finish
there will be no obstacle
that can be put before you
that you can’t overcome.
And we have seen that time and again.
The finances are an important part
of the project to include
when you are thinking
about what project
you are going to do next
and how you are going to accomplish it.
But financial support doesn’t create
the loving atmosphere
that we find on these projects.
It doesn’t create unity,
and it doesn’t motivate ones to want
to serve Jehovah and work hard,
day in and day out,
together with their brothers and sisters.
That’s where Jehovah’s spirit comes in,
that’s what’s moving
our brothers and sisters,
and that’s what motivates us
to work hard together.
Without Jehovah’s hand in it
—like we’ve seen
—we wouldn’t accomplish
what we’ve been able to accomplish.
How exciting
for the brothers in Micronesia!
Our contributions are important,
but only when coupled
with Jehovah’s blessing.
The need for Kingdom Halls
continues to grow worldwide.
Here are some examples of recent projects
and the fine results.
Our contributions
are not only used for conventions
and construction projects,
as we know,
they are also used
for printing our publications,
maintaining our website,
and producing videos.
Starting in May of last year,
the JW Broadcasting monthly program
has been available in many languages.
And the response
from you dear brothers and sisters
has been a great shout
of appreciation to Jehovah!
Please join us
behind the scenes
as we follow the translation process
step-by-step.
Our organization has been translating
Bible-based printed material
into hundreds of languages
for many years.
Video has also been included
as an important part
of our modern global educational work.
But what unique challenges are involved
in translation of a video program
like JW Broadcasting?
Production of this program
involves creating and translating
more content on a monthly basis than we
have ever done before as an organization.
This has required training additional teams
to support the work internationally.
What are the steps involved in this process?
It starts
when the Teaching Committee
of the Governing Body
approves the monthly program
recorded in the studio.
The video recording
of the program is then passed on
to the Translation Packaging Team.
They prepare a number of items
that together form
a translation package.
For example,
they create a transcript,
which includes everything
spoken in the program,
along with any notes
and explanations to help the translators
around the world carry out their work.
To make the translated program
pleasing to watch and listen to,
translated audio and subtitles
must match the original length
of each statement.
For example,
if Brother Lett
speaks for 15 seconds
in the original English recording,
the translated version
needs to also be 15 seconds.
To help the translators in achieving that,
the original audio recording from our studio
is broken into natural segments and timed.
That information is then added
to the translation package.
The final package is double-checked
for accuracy and quality
before it’s sent to translators worldwide.
The materials provided are used
immediately to begin translation work,
assuring that the same spiritual food
is being provided in each language.
The translated narration
is recorded in various locations
and added to the original video files.
Other regions use subtitles,
record translations
of various sign languages,
or a combination of these methods.
Our brothers and sisters
consider this assignment a great privilege,
knowing that it is helping
Jehovah’s people worldwide.
When we saw it in Japanese,
we all shouted:
“There is a TV program
which we can enjoy without worry.”
We really appreciate this.
Now we feel closer
to Jehovah and his organization.
And, of course,
it pulls together my family.
It touches my heart
because it is in my own language.
It’s really wonderful to know
that this arrangement has been made.
It is easy to listen to,
and now we only have to click
to watch it in our own language!
A lot of work
is done here at Bethel
to provide spiritual food
for all of Jehovah’s people.
Recently,
a video was produced
at Bethel in Japan.
It shows a group of sisters
who sing about how much
they love serving at Bethel.
This is a short excerpt from that video.
One of the main reasons
for the construction of theocratic facilities
is to support the never-to-be-repeated work
of finding honesthearted ones
who want to learn more about Jehovah.
One such individual is Brother Steve Gerdes
from the United States.
As a young man,
his life spun out of control
and his lifestyle
left him feeling empty.
But what did he do
to find purpose in life?
Let’s find out.
I grew up in a small town,
and I had a good childhood.
My parents instilled in me
from a young age a love for God
and a respect for the Bible.
We were regular church attenders
and I went to a private school
and I had Bible classes
each and every day.
Despite all of this,
however, I felt
like something was missing.
When I was 15,
my life changed in a moment’s notice.
I was playing high up in a tree,
the branch broke,
I fell to the ground,
and I was paralyzed.
At that moment,
I went from an active kid who could run
to one who was paralyzed
from his neck down.
I couldn’t feel anything.
By the time I was 18,
I gained enough physical strength
in my arms
that I once again had my independence.
At that point,
I attended a university
and lived on campus.
My life changed dramatically once again.
Here I was exposed to drugs,
alcohol, immorality,
and I fell into that lifestyle.
Every night, though,
I still read the Bible;
I still had this strong faith in God.
But when I prayed
and went to sleep at night,
I just knew I was going to end up
in that hellfire that I
had been taught from an early age.
During this time,
I met a girl named Julie,
and we were married shortly after.
She was in the same
hippie lifestyle that I was in,
and we knew that if we
were going to stay married,
we had to move away
from our bad influence.
We were looking for God,
and we wanted him in our lives.
One day,
I was in the park by myself.
It was a beautiful setting
—there was a lake
in front of me,
a mountain in the background
—and at that point,
I said a prayer to God.
I told him
that we wanted to serve him,
but we just didn’t know how.
About 10 minutes later,
a guy walked up,
and he started talking
to me about a paradise earth.
Everything he said made sense;
I had read it before.
The thing that really stood out
to me was his explanation on hellfire.
It was so clear,
it was so logical!
It just made sense to me.
He invited us to the Kingdom Hall
the next day and we went.
My wife and I will never forget
that first meeting 37 years ago.
I had my long hair,
holes in my jeans.
I don’t think
I even wore shoes that first time.
As we’re sitting there,
I’m thinking
that the older brother
who is conducting on stage
is going to find us so disgusting.
But to our surprise,
right after the meeting
he came up,
he greeted us,
and he invited us
to spend time with his family.
We don’t remember anything
that was said at that meeting,
but we’ll never forget the greeting.
We immediately started attending
all the meetings
at the Kingdom Hall
and also began
a Bible study with the brother
we met in the park.
The changes in our lifestyle
did not come overnight,
but the brothers
were so loving and patient with us.
We now had a purpose in life.
The emptiness that I had felt
for so long was no longer there.
We no longer had to live
in that self-centered lifestyle.
Now we had Jehovah, we had
the brothers, and we had the ministry.
We made our dedication to Jehovah
and we were baptized.
Julie and I have had
a fruitful ministry over the years.
It’s always been
one of our goals that we
and our two younger children
would be able to one day
regular pioneer together.
We discussed if we could make a move
to Mexico and serve
where there was a greater need.
We knew there would be
challenges with accessibility
and learning a new culture.
So we made the decision to try it
as a family for one year,
and now, four years later,
we are all still serving
in the full-time ministry here in Mexico.
I also live with pain every day,
and some thought
that I would not have
the physical strength
to make such a move.
But I always remember
that when I’m in the ministry,
I don’t feel the pain.
In fact,
my children have said
that “I hope Dad
never has to stop pioneering
because that’s when he’s the happiest.”
Pioneering really seems to be
getting easier for me,
not harder.
I know this isn’t because of my strength,
but it’s Jehovah’s holy spirit.
I still love the parks
as I did when I was young,
but now I have the opportunity to share
the wonderful Bible hope with others.
I’m so thankful to Jehovah that he heard
that prayer in the park many years ago.
My life is now filled with peace,
happiness, and contentment.
And now,
I look forward to the time soon
when we’re in the paradise,
I can get rid of this wheelchair,
and I can run once again.
Brother Gerdes has been serving as an elder
for the past 25 years
and as a regular pioneer
for the last 13 years.
Although financial contributions
are one means of giving to Jehovah,
giving of our time and effort
is also very important.
And we want to commend
all of you who reach out,
perhaps to serve in the full-time ministry
or where the need is greater.
If you’re a parent
and your children
have put Kingdom interests first,
we’re confident
that you are very proud of them.
This music video
highlights common emotions
that you may be facing
—similar to how Hannah felt
when she dedicated her son Samuel
to a life of service to Jehovah.
The song is entitled
“I Give You My Best.”
You gave us a trust,
a son to cherish and to train.
Those years are past
and gone so fast.
Now we rejoice to see his choice,
to know our work was not in vain.
It’s hard letting go; yet in my heart I know
the safest place that he can be
is in your loving hands for now
and all eternity.
In all the years to come,
I know my heart will be at rest.
I give to you what you deserve;
I give to you my very best.
You gave us a girl,
a gift to nurture and to love.
Through all the years,
through joy and tears,
our precious one has now become
the woman we are so proud of.
It’s hard letting go; yet in my heart I know
the safest place that she can be
is in your loving hands for now
and all eternity.
In all the years to come,
I know my heart will be at rest.
I give to you what you deserve;
I give to you my very best.
We are happy to see such sacrifices
of time and effort to Jehovah!
It’s not easy for parents
to see their children
move to a place far away,
and it’s not easy
for the children either.
But knowing that it’s
for Jehovah helps tremendously,
and Jehovah provides
the strength that is needed.
And speaking of serving
Jehovah wholeheartedly,
if you haven’t seen it yet,
we encourage you to watch
an interview with three brothers
who spent decades in the traveling work.
Their experiences are available
in the “Video on Demand” section.
The video is entitled
“Iron Sharpens Iron.”
Just like those faithful brothers,
we are truly grateful for the privilege
of being part of God’s organization.
And we want to, again,
commend all of you
for your generous support.
We’ve seen examples during this program
of what has been accomplished
using donated funds.
There is no doubt that Jehovah is blessing
all our efforts to speed up the work
as his day is getting ever closer!
We would like to conclude
our JW Broadcasting program
with these greetings
from a Kingdom Hall build
in the state of Louisiana
in the United States.
This congregation in Eunice was in need
of a new Kingdom Hall
after having used the same building
since 1970.
The congregation found a property
that had been for sale
for more than five years.
Our brothers contacted
the owners who then decided
to donate the property
to the Witnesses.
It was later assessed to be worth
40,000 U.S. dollars.
Recently,
construction began,
and the 53 publishers,
including four elders
and seven regular pioneers,
now enjoy
a brand-new Kingdom Hall!
They send their love
and greetings to you,
and we do the same
from world headquarters
to all of you brothers
and sisters around the world.
We love you very much.
This is JW Broadcasting
from Brooklyn, New York.